README.md, before:

# Create lxd container and install cloudflared tunnel using ansible

Based on
https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/deploy-tunnels/deployment-guides/ansible/

Install terraform, lxd and ansible
```
# https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install
brew tap hashicorp/tap
brew install hashicorp/tap/terraform

# https://documentation.ubuntu.com/lxd/en/latest/tutorial/first_steps/
sudo snap install lxd
lxd init --minimal

# https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html
```

On LXC machine create a folder
```
ssh lxd-mashine

mkdir lxc
cd lxc

# clone under different name
git clone git@github.com:duleorlovic/cloudflare_tunnel_tf.git my-app_cloudflare_tunnel_tf

cd my-app_cloudflare_tunnel_tf
```

Note that you can not have tunels and container with same name, so the best is
to use EDIT-THIS-app-name instead of  my-app
```
# mv my-app_cloudflare_tunnel_tf EDIT-THIS-app-name_cloudflare_tunnel_tf, eg:
mv my-app_cloudflare_tunnel_tf www.my-app.com_cloudflare_tunnel_tf
```

Create `terraform.tfvars`
```
# terraform.tfvars
# https://developers.cloudflare.com/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/ with Cloudflare Tunnel and DNS permissions.
# My Profile > Api Tokens > Create Token > Create Custom Token
# Name >
#  EDIT-THIS-computer-name
# Permissions >
#   Account: Cloudflare Tunnel: Edit
#   Zone: DNS: Edit
# you can filter limit specific resources if needed
# copy API token and put to EDIT-THIS-api-token
cloudflare_zone           = "trk.in.rs"
# find zone id when you go websites and click on your domain and scroll down
cloudflare_zone_id        = "EDIT-THIS-zone-id"
# find account id in url eg https://dash.cloudflare.com/123-this-is-account-id
cloudflare_account_id     = "EDIT-THIS-account-id"
cloudflare_email          = "EDIT-THIS-email@example.com"
cloudflare_token          = "EDIT-THIS-api-token"

# LXC container name can contain only alphanumeric and hyphens
lxd_container_name        = "my-app"

# Subdomain is used for dns and tunnel ingress hostname so you can also use dot
# for example subdomain "www.my-app" will create a hostname www.my-app.trk.in.rs
# we actually use two hostnames, one for web and one for ssh access, so for
# subdomain "my-app" we generate two hostnames subdomain.zone ssh-subdomain.zone
# my-app.trk.in.rs
# ssh-my-app.trk.in.rs
subdomain                 = "my-app"

# Machine name is used for tunnel name and container description
lxd_machine_name          = "EDIT-THIS-computer-name"

# Ubuntu version https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/
ubuntu_version            = "22.04"

# Pub key file is generated with ssh-keygen -f my-app-key
default_public_key_file           = "my-app-key.pub"

# if present, it will be added to the host .ssh/authorized_keys
additional_public_key_file           = "some-id-key.pub"
```

Run terraform
```
terraform init

ssh-keygen -f my-app-key -N ""

terraform plan
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

Delete machine
```
terraform destroy -auto-approve
```

## Test connection from remote machine

From machine you want to ssh you need to install `brew install cloudflared` tool
and configure ssh to use it
```
# .ssh/config
# https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/use-cases/ssh/
Host ssh-my-app.trk.in.rs
  ProxyCommand $(brew --prefix)/bin/cloudflared access ssh --hostname %h
```
In your project create deploy folder
```
mkdir deploy
cd deploy

cat > .gitignore << HERE_DOC
my-key
my-key.pub
HERE_DOC

# download keys `my-key` and `my-key.pub`
scp lxd-mashine:lxc/my-app_cloudflare_tunnel_tf/my-key*  .

ssh-add my-app-key
```

and connect with
```
ssh ubuntu@ssh-my-app.trk.in.rs
```

Create ansible files
```
# inventory
[default]
ssh-my-app.trk.in.rs ansible_user=ubuntu

# ansible.cfg
[defaults]
inventory = inventory
```
and test connection
```
ansible all -m ping
```

## Debug

Test connection from lxd host using output command
```
ANSIBLE_HOST_KEY_CHECKING=False ansible-playbook -u ubuntu  -i 10.89.228.210, playbook.yml

# or this generic command
ssh ubuntu@"$(get_container_ip my-app)" cat .ssh/authorized_keys
```

Debug cloudflare tunnel with
```
lxc shell my-app

cat /etc/cloudflared/*

service cloudflared start

systemctl status cloudflared
tail /var/log/cloudflared.log
# same as:
journalctl -u cloudflared.service

cloudflared tunnel info my-app
```

Debug ansible with
```
terraform output ansible_playbook_command
```

## Deploy app using ansible from remote machine

Commit message:

Add note that single word subdomain is must

README.md, after:

# Create lxd container and install cloudflared tunnel using ansible

Based on
https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/deploy-tunnels/deployment-guides/ansible/

Install terraform, lxd and ansible
```
# https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install
brew tap hashicorp/tap
brew install hashicorp/tap/terraform

# https://documentation.ubuntu.com/lxd/en/latest/tutorial/first_steps/
sudo snap install lxd
lxd init --minimal

# https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html
```

On LXC machine create a folder
```
ssh lxd-mashine

mkdir lxc
cd lxc

# clone the repo
git clone git@github.com:duleorlovic/cloudflare_tunnel_tf.git
```

Note that you can not have tunels and container with same name, so the best is
to use EDIT-THIS-app-name instead of my-app
```
# mv my-app_cloudflare_tunnel_tf EDIT-THIS-app-name_cloudflare_tunnel_tf, eg:
# use different name
mv cloudflare_tunnel_tf my-app_cloudflare_tunnel_tf
# or you can use full domain
mv cloudflare_tunnel_tf www.my-app.com_cloudflare_tunnel_tf
```

Create `terraform.tfvars`
```
# terraform.tfvars
# https://developers.cloudflare.com/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/ with Cloudflare Tunnel and DNS permissions.
# My Profile > Api Tokens > Create Token > Create Custom Token
# Name >
#  EDIT-THIS-computer-name
# Permissions >
#   Account: Cloudflare Tunnel: Edit
#   Zone: DNS: Edit
# you can filter limit specific resources if needed
# copy API token and put to EDIT-THIS-api-token
cloudflare_zone           = "trk.in.rs"
# find zone id when you go websites and click on your domain and scroll down
cloudflare_zone_id        = "EDIT-THIS-zone-id"
# find account id in url eg https://dash.cloudflare.com/123-this-is-account-id
cloudflare_account_id     = "EDIT-THIS-account-id"
cloudflare_email          = "EDIT-THIS-email@example.com"
cloudflare_token          = "EDIT-THIS-api-token"

# LXC container name can contain only alphanumeric and hyphens
lxd_container_name        = "my-app"

# Subdomain is used for dns and tunnel ingress hostname, should be single word
# since cloudflare does not support sub-sub domains (ie default cert is only
# *.zone and on dashboard you can see: This hostname is not covered by a
# certificate.) we actually use two hostnames, one for web and one for ssh
# access, so for subdomain "my-app" we generate also "ssh-my-app" subdomain
# my-app.trk.in.rs
# ssh-my-app.trk.in.rs
subdomain                 = "my-app"

# Machine name is used for tunnel name and container description
lxd_machine_name          = "EDIT-THIS-computer-name"

# Ubuntu version https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/releases/
ubuntu_version            = "22.04"

# Pub key file is generated with ssh-keygen -f my-app-key -N ""
default_public_key_file           = "my-app-key.pub"

# if present, it will be added to the host .ssh/authorized_keys
additional_public_key_file           = "some-id-key.pub"
```

Run terraform
```
terraform init

ssh-keygen -f my-app-key -N ""

terraform plan
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

Delete machine
```
terraform destroy -auto-approve
```

## Test connection from remote machine

From machine you want to ssh you need to install `brew install cloudflared` tool
and configure ssh to use it
```
# .ssh/config
# https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/use-cases/ssh/
Host ssh-my-app.trk.in.rs
  ProxyCommand $(brew --prefix)/bin/cloudflared access ssh --hostname %h
```
In your project create deploy folder
```
mkdir deploy
cd deploy

cat > .gitignore << HERE_DOC
my-key
my-key.pub
HERE_DOC

# download keys `my-key` and `my-key.pub`
scp lxd-mashine:lxc/my-app_cloudflare_tunnel_tf/my-key*  .

ssh-add my-app-key
```

and connect with
```
ssh ubuntu@ssh-my-app.trk.in.rs
```

Create ansible files
```
# inventory
[default]
ssh-my-app.trk.in.rs ansible_user=ubuntu

# ansible.cfg
[defaults]
inventory = inventory
```
and test connection
```
ansible all -m ping
```

## Debug

Test connection from lxd host using output command
```
ANSIBLE_HOST_KEY_CHECKING=False ansible-playbook -u ubuntu  -i 10.89.228.210, playbook.yml

# or this generic command
ssh ubuntu@"$(get_container_ip my-app)" cat .ssh/authorized_keys
```

Debug cloudflare tunnel with
```
lxc shell my-app

cat /etc/cloudflared/*

service cloudflared start

systemctl status cloudflared
tail /var/log/cloudflared.log
# same as:
journalctl -u cloudflared.service

cloudflared tunnel info my-app
```

Debug ansible with
```
terraform output ansible_playbook_command
```

## Deploy app using ansible from remote machine
